Hyperledger is really the first series of projects focused on permissioned blockchain applications.
hyperledger is a software used to create one's own personalized  Blockchain Service
the goal of hyperledger is to create enterprise based blockchain 

There are no administrator permissions within a blockchain that allow editing or deleting of data.(etherium, bitcoin)

In summary, distributed ledger technology generally consists of three basic components:

A data model that captures the current state of the ledger
A language of transactions that changes the ledger state
A protocol used to build consensus among participants around which transactions will be accepted, and in what order, by the ledger.


The Hyperledger Sawtooth uses Proof of Elapsed Time.

Hyperledger blockchains are generally permissioned blockchains, which means that the parties that join the network are authenticated and authorized to participate on the network. 
Hyperledger’s main goal is to create enterprise grade, open source, distributed ledger frameworks and code bases to support business use cases.

Types of Blockchains

A blockchain can be both permissionless (like Bitcoin or Ethereum) or permissioned (like the different Hyperledger blockchain frameworks).
A permissionless blockchain is also known as a public blockchain, because anyone can join the network.
A permissioned blockchain, or private blockchain, requires pre-verification of the participating parties within the network, and these parties are usually known to each other.

disadvantages of public blockchain:
in pub blc each peer has to execute each and every transaction and run a concensus algo to validate it, this is major challenge when it comes to scalability
moreover transaction Confidenitiality and privacy is also getting lost as every node recieving copy of ledger


Advantages of Using a Permissioned Blockchain over a Permissionless Blockchain

If you look at permissionless blockchains, like the Bitcoin blockchain or the Ethereum blockchain, anyone can join the network, as well as write and read transactions. 
The actors in the system are not known, which means there could be some malicious actors within the network.

Hyperledger reduces these security risks and ensures that only the parties that want to transact are the ones that are part of the transaction
and, rather than displaying the record of the transactions to the whole network, they remain visible only to the parties involved.
So, Hyperledger provides all the capabilities of the blockchain architecture - data privacy, information sharing, immutability,
with a full stack of security protocols - all for the enterprise. 
Permissioned blockchains offer more efficient transaction performance, thus being highly scalable, and have a clearly defined governance structure. 

(supply chain management, the management of the flow of goods and services, between businesses and locations)

The supply chain management is an ideal use case for permissioned blockchains. You would only want trusted parties participating in the network.

Each participant that is involved in the supply chain would require permissions to execute transactions on the blockchain. 
These transactions would allow other companies to understand where in the supply chain a particular item is.

Smart contracts are simply computer programs that execute predefined actions when certain conditions within the system are met.
Smart contracts provide the language of transactions that allow the ledger state to be modified. 
They can facilitate the exchange and transfer of anything of value (e.g. shares, money, content, property).

Consensus in the network refers to the process of achieving agreement among the network participants as to the correct state of data on the system.

Proof of Elapsed Time (PoET)
the PoET consensus algorithm is a hybrid of a random lottery and first-come-first-serve basis. In PoET, each validator is given a random wait time.

"The validator with the shortest wait time for a particular transaction block is elected the leader".




